Hi everyone. So today I'm going to be

going over the Leta Code GitHub action.

So this makes it really easy to turn any

existing Leta Code agent into basically

a background agent. So you can get the

agent to run on different issues or

review PRs and it all runs inside of

GitHub actions. So I'm going to be going

through the setup and then also show you

how you can actually interact with the

agent and also customize the agent. So

I've created a fork of our Leta Code

repo. um called let code testing and I'm

basically going to install the GitHub

action into this repo so that we can use

agents to work inside of here. And I've

already installed Leta Code. Um I

recommend doing this with Leta Code

already installed since we actually

recently added a new command to make it

really easy to install this action. So I

can do install GitHub app and then this

is essentially a wizard that will walk

me through the setup process. So I can

either choose um choose doing the

existing repository or in this case I'm

going to do a different one. So leta

code testing. And then oh one thing I

forgot to mention is that you do want to

have the GitHub CLI already installed

and set up with um the right

credentials. Um so I already have that

installed so my agent will be able to

access my repos with the GitHub CLI.

So I selected the repo. Um and I

actually can use my current existing

agent. I would actually generally

recommend this because your current

agent probably already has a lot of

memory and information um about your

repository. So if you already have an

existing agent, definitely recommend

using that. Um but just for the sake of

this demo, I'm going to just create a

new agent so that I can kind of show you

the process of customizing that agent

and then also uh training that agent

with some initial memory.

And then we'll just keep the existing

name. And then now it's basically just

going to um set up this agent for me. So

it's basically retrieving information

from the repository. Um it's going to

create a branch and when it's done it

should basically um create like a a PR

for me to um open up. So now let code

has opened up this poll request for me.

So this is basically a poll request

that's going to add a workflow for

enabling um calling let code agents from

this repository. Um so it just kind of

has some background on what this is and

then also instructions on how to

actually use let code. So you just do

atleta code. Um so I'm just going to

create this pull request

and then merge this pull request. So now

that we have let code installed, we can

try creating an issue to use let code.

So I'm just going to do something a

little silly for the sake of the demo.

Um so move all sub agents to use opus

4.6.

work on this and create a PR. So, in

general, you're going to want to add

like a lot more detail than I'm actually

adding in here. Um, kind of think of it

as like delegating a task to human. You

want to ideally be as specific as you

can um and be very instructive, but

that's not always ne necessary.

So now that I've tagged let a code in

this issue, this will essentially um

start up a GitHub action which will call

the let code agent inside of that GitHub

action so that the agent can essentially

work on this issue.

So you can see that let code is now

working and I can actually go view this

job run.

So this is basically the GitHub action

getting started um installing let code

um invoking the Asia and stuff like

that. So, if I want to view my agent's

progress, I can basically click on this

link.

And then inside of this AD view, I can

actually see what this agent's been up

to. So, I can see the initial prompt

that the agent was given. So, this is

basically a bunch of built-in

instructions that we have for the agent.

So, this is like a system reminder. Um

and then uh you can see that basically

this agent realized that it's been

invoked um with this trigger. So it's

been asked to move all subject agents to

opus 4.6. Um and then it gets like a

bunch of details about you know what

environment it's in. Um and so yeah, you

can kind of see it basically like you

know reading through all the different

files in the repository to basically

work on this task. And again, because

this is just a normal Letter code agent,

you can, as you always would, basically

edit the model or like edit um even the

prompts um inside of this UI. And then

every single time you invoke the agent

from an issue, it'll actually create a

new conversation. So you can see that um

these are basically the issues that

we've had the agent work on. You can see

the unique conversation ID. So you can

even resume this conversation locally

using this ID. Um, and if this agent

creates a PR from this issue, then the

same conversation will be continued.

Versus if you trigger or invoke the

agent for the first time on a PR or for

the first time on an issue, then it'll

create a new conversation.

So, I can see that this agent's

continuing to um make progress on this

task and is basically updating this

issue as it makes progress. Um, so I'm

just going to kind of wait for it to

complete. So, while we're waiting for

this to finish, I'm actually going to

work on customizing this agent and

essentially starting up its memory. Um,

we just created this agent. So, this

agent has no memory. Um, if we look into

the actual like core memory section, we

can see that there's, you know, not a

lot going on. Um, so I'm actually going

to bring this agent locally to help it

bootstrap its memory. So to use the

GitHub actions agent locally, all I have

to do is just let a d-- agent and then

this agent ID.

So this is the GitHub actions agent and

I'm going to actually make sure that we

have messes enabled. So this is our new

um memory feature. This should probably

be enabled by default actually for this

agent. Um but I'm just going to make

sure that this new memory system is

enabled.

And then now I'm basically going to go

through the process of revising this

agent's memory and then also adding some

customization. So if we kind of look at

the current state of memory, yeah,

there's literally nothing. Um, so I'm

just going to run init. So this is going

to help the agent bootstrap its memory

by giving it some time to actually

explore the repository um, and kind of

learn some new things. So I generally

recommend running this with all agents.

Um, you want your agents to have some

time to kind of process the existing

repository for memories, decide all

their memory structure, and ideally it's

like a very interactive process. So,

this is kind of some time that you

should spend with new agents to help

them kind of learn about your work and

your preferences, stuff like that. Um,

so that that agent can be a lot more

tailored to your own work. So, I'm just

going to do a standard review. I'm going

to skip the history analysis.

Um let's do frequent tur. Okay. So my

agent has created an initial set of

memory um files. And then I'm actually

also going to ask it um can you make

sure in your persona

to

create some

code review guidelines for yourself

or in another file.

Okay. So now it's making a new file for

itself.

So now that my agent has essentially um

you know done this code review, I can

actually go back into the ad to view

this agent.

And so you can see if I open up the

memory that now it has this full um file

tree of its memory files. Um so the

agent the memories that the agent

created locally are now actually also on

the remote server. So for future issues

where we um invoke the agent from the

GitHub action again, it'll actually have

all this memory that we created together

with the agent.

And of course we can always hop back to

that original conversation. Um so one

thing I'll note is that uh the agent

will not necessarily always immediately

see the new memories. Um since we

sometimes will delay the recompilation

of the system prompt to avoid cache

evictions. Um so it's only on

compactions, new conversations or

message resets um that all the memory

gets reflected. Uh but of course if we

create a new issue then that will create

a new conversation. So on the next run

the agent will have all this memory. So

it seems like this agent is spending a

really long time writing tests. Um but

we can just go ahead and create this PR.

So I can create this

And then I can basically see like oh

these all these changes that this agent

made. So basically it modified all the

existing default um agent types or sub

aent types and updated it to be opus

which is not actually something that we

want but just a really easy way to kind

of see a simple change that the let code

agent can make. So now that I have this

PR um from the agent, I can actually go

back and forth with the agent um to

continue the same conversation by just

doing um at let a code inside of this

PR. But what I can also do is I can even

resume the conversation with that same

agent. So to resume the agent locally, I

can actually just copy that conversation

command.

And so this is the same agent that was

basically running inside of that GitHub

actions runner. Um, so I can ask it a

question like, hey, did you add any

testing in the end?

So I guess it's doing a conversation

search to basically review um its whole

trajectory.

And so it says that it did run the

existing tests, but it did not add any

new tests. So this kind of matches up to

um what we see in the PR where it

changed a bunch of things, but it didn't

actually add any tests. So yeah, you can

basically um chat with the agent here.

You can chat with it from in here and

it'll be the same conversation. You can

even talk to it from the AD though in

that case it won't really have any

environment to run inside of. Um, so I

would kind of recommend using the AD for

only viewing viewing only.

So yeah, the let code GitHub action is a

great way to basically interact with

Leta Code agents um, and have them run

in the background without you having to

run them on your local machine. But the

great thing about them is because

they're stateful, you can actually um

bring that same conversation back to

your local machine to essentially

interact with the agent or understand or

give them feedback um for whatever that

they might have been working on inside

of the GitHub action. The let code

GitHub action is a great way to just

have your Letter Code agents be running

in the background. And of course,

because the agents are stateful, you can

always just resume the same conversation

from the Letter Code CLI to basically

give the agent feedback or to understand

the decisions that they made. The Letter

Code agents running through the GitHub

action will also of course have access

to the same memories um that it builds

up locally or um remotely because all

the memories are synchronized through

the context repositories. We've been

using the lot of code GitHub action for

most of our repos. So definitely

recommend you check it out. Thanks.
