Hi everyone, my name is Sarah and today

I'm going to be showing you how you can

create Leta bots um which are

essentially a wrapper around Leta code

to make it possible to create these

personal agents that you can communicate

through whatever channel you want like

Telegram, Slack, Discord, etc. Um but

they're agents that essentially can do

work for you, are always there, and can

even run on their own through cron jobs

and heartbeats. Um, so yeah, I'll kind

of go over like what is Leta Letot, um,

what is Leta code, how do they relate to

each other, and then also show you how

you can get set up with Letterbot, which

is open source. Um, and basically set

things up on your own local machine so

you can have your own personal

assistance. So, Letterbot is open

source. You can go check it out um, on

this repository. So, this has all the

instructions which I'll be going through

um, to set things up. I do first want to

give a little bit of background though

on like what even are these personal

agents. I think these things feel really

magical because they kind of are.

They're very very close to having a

digital employee, which I think is a

little freaky the first time you try it.

Um, you know, they'll be kind of this

persistent agent that you're talking to.

It's like thinking on its own. It's

taking its own actions. It's definitely

very very scary. I think I've also had

that own experience. So, basically, most

of these personal agents, which includes

both Lets OpenClaw, they're basically

these wrappers around these existing

coding CLIs. So you might have heard of

claude code our codeex there's obviously

let code um open claws I believe

implemented on top of pi which is like a

very lightweight coding agent um these

coding agents are extremely extremely

powerful I think basically most things

you can do on your computer they can

also do and so what these personal

agents do is it basically kind of adds

additional functionality or or wraps

these CLIs to be able to create this

kind of more maybe like humanlike

digital entity on top of these kind of

yeah lighter weight CLI tools. Um so

what that includes is things like cron

jobs. So maybe you want to just like

trigger your agent to run um on some

periodic occasions maybe like once a day

it like checks in with you um or maybe

it like can schedule tasks for itself in

the future. Um another thing that it

adds is very similarly heartbeats. So

heartbeats are basically triggers. Um,

so it's essentially like a prompt that

gets sent to the agent on some periodic

interval. So it'll kind of essentially

depending on the prompting trigger the

agent to run on its own, kind of like

have its own hobbies, um, you know, do

whatever to kind of feel more proactive.

Uh, we actually had this in the very

first version of the MEGPT Discord bot,

which was pretty funny. I remember this

was back in like 2023 and it would

message me about how it'd been like

thinking about my research and um yeah

like really crazy stuff like that like

it it definitely this really helps feel

like make things feel more human because

the agents will kind of you know come

back to you and tell you about these

proactive things that they did. Um and

then of course integrations is a huge

part of this. So, I think it's much it's

a very different experience interacting

with these personal agents as opposed to

something like cloud code because you're

not necessarily stuck in the terminal.

You can actually um through these

integrations do things like message it

from Telegram or WhatsApp, whatever you

prefer. A lot of I think what people are

really kind of blown away by with these

personal agents is actually skill usage.

So essentially extending the

functionality of the agent by giving

these agents skills that can tell it

like you know here's how you can use

Gmail here here's how you can use linear

etc. Um that basically allow these

agents to connect to all these

integrations do all these crazy things

kind of like with MCP except even

better. So what this actually ends up

looking like is you basically have a

server that's wrapping um these coding

CLI tools. So whether it's Cloud Code,

Pi, a lot of code, they're all very

similar concepts. Um so openclaw is

essentially the server around this and

letabot is also like a server around

this just built on top of leta code

instead. Um and so what this server does

is it basically manages the channels. So

you know if you have interactions

through telegram it manages like that

forwarding and that interaction with the

coding agent. Um it also manages the

scheduling. So basically that part is

built into the server. So that's how you

get things like cron jobs and

heartbeats. Um it'll also pull. So we

actually added like um I think Gmail

polling. You could also add your own

polling if you want to. So it's kind of

like checking for updates and if there

is one then it will send that to the

agent. And then of course it also does

skill skill management. Um so there's a

huge amount of skills that are built

into the server. Um I think OpenClaw has

done a really good job of like adding a

lot of um CLI. So for example like the I

don't know if you're supposed to say

like GOG or GG um or Google, I don't

know. Um, but yeah, this is basically a

CLI that makes it really easy to

interact with all of the G Suite tools.

So yeah, GOG CLI is another project from

the open clock creator. Um, he has a ton

of CLIs. I think that's like a lot of

what he um develops, but this basically

makes it way easier to create skills for

your agents. So essentially like telling

your agent like here's the CLI. I want

you to use it to be able to like take

all these actions. So, of course, you

can also do this through APIs, but

generally it's a lot easier for your

agent if it has um like a CLI because

it's just going to be a lot better at

using that thanks to terminal use. Um

so, I think he's basically packaged like

a ton of um different stuff into these

CLIs to make it really easy to extend

your agents with skills that are able to

do a lot of these new things. So, now

we're going to actually set up Letot.

So, to do that, I can just go on the

repo. Um I've already cloned this, so

I'm just going to run um these commands

to basically set things up.

And you'll notice that we actually don't

have a package. Um, we maybe should, but

the reason for that for the time being

is that it's actually a lot easier, I

think, to mo to use a really fastmoving

project like this when you can actually

like kind of vibe code, you know,

through Letot itself, um, changes that

you might need or any tweaks that you

want to make. Um, so, you know, maybe if

you want to change the heartbeat prompts

or something as opposed to using some

CLI command, you can actually just add

ask your agent to edit that directly.

So now that this is running, I'm going

to run letot on board.

And so I already set my API key in my

environment. So it's reading it from

there. I'm going to select creating a

new agent. Just keep the letterbot name.

Um let's use sonet 4.5. I think the

miniax models are actually really good

for this as well. Um so maybe let's do

that. Support uh open source. And then

let's do telegram. Um, I already have a

Telegram token because I set that up

with the bot father. It's really easy.

You just like speak to this strange

agent on Telegram. Um, and basically

tell it like what you want the agent

name to be and then also um basically

just get a key from um, Telegram.

So, I'm just going to go copy that over.

Let's do pairing. Um, I'm going to skip

group and let's enable heartbeats. Um, I

think I'm I'm going to keep this at 30

minutes, but uh you should know that the

heartbeats will invoke your agent. So,

if you're running this constantly, you

might want to actually increase this

interval um if you want to kind of be

more careful about costs.

Let's enable chron jobs and then let's

set up Google Workspace. So, I'm going

to just connect this to my Leta account.

So, save and finish. So this is

essentially going to create me a Leta

agent um which I can then use to message

and I can even talk to it through the AD

or also even through the letter code

CLI.

So now that I've done this I can

essentially run um letterbot server. So

this is that server that we talked that

about that's essentially going to manage

things like the polling um you know

orchestration with the different

channels like telegram and then also

doing things like the cron jobs and the

heartbeats. So I've opened up telegram

and um yeah this name doesn't match

because I I made this a while ago but I

can basically just say hello to my agent

and you can see that this agent is

typing back something to me. So the

agent responded hi back to me. I can

also like see the logs for what's going

on behind the scenes. And I guess we can

do something like uh what's your name?

Okay, so is named letterbot since um I

don't know why it shared a thread emoji

um but we gave it the name letterbot. So

that's in its memory. And I can also ask

it like what is your working directory?

So this is essentially where LetaBot is

working. Um so that's where um all if it

like writes files or reads files or

stuff like that, it's it's able to see

stuff there.

I'm also just going to ask it where is

its memory located. Um so we recently

added a new feature called um uh context

repositories and so the agent should

actually understand like where its

memory is located um so it can make edit

edits to that.

So now if I say something like

FYI my name is Sarah. I'm actually

surprised it didn't ask me this. It

usually is very proactive with question

asking but I guess everything's

probabistic.

Okay, so now it's finally responded. Um,

and it says it's updated its memory. Um,

and so we can actually kind of go look

at what it's been up to, um, by using

the link for the AD. So if I scroll up

here, um, you can see that we actually

have this URL. So I'm going to copy that

over.

And so over here, I can actually see

this agent that I've been talking to in

Telegram in the AD. So um this is using

our new context repositories feature. So

you can see that a lot of its u memory

blocks are actually nested. So it's

under the hood. This is kind of you know

a older UI. We'll be updating this soon.

Um but it's kind of like a UI to see

like what are all the memories. Um the

agents memory itself is actually

structured as like a sort of file

system. So everything in system is

actually like inside of its context

window. So you can actually see the raw

like memory in here. Um, and it can

actually also have like a file like

outside of system that maybe has like

additional information um, that isn't

always pinned to the system prompt. So

the agent has full control over this

through having a copy of its memory

repository locally.

So I can see basically this conversation

that I was having.

And so yeah, you can see that it

actually was using bash to make edits to

um, its memory.

I wonder what kind of things it

did.

Um I see. Yeah. So it basically changed,

you know, this overview file I had to

say like I don't know anything about

this person yet to say this is Sarah. Um

I guess she told me her name directly. I

like that direct. No dancing around. Not

the first time I heard that. Um

yeah. So this is kind of gives you like

an idea of like what's kind of going on

behind the scenes. Um, so this is how

the messages are structured and and this

is how the agents like doing local

operations. You can message your agent

through this UI as well, but it's a

little confusing, but basically this

agent like only has a very limited set

of server side tools. So if I message it

from in here, it's not actually able to

connect to my local machine. Um, so I

would generally re even though we allow

you to do that, I would recommend not

doing that because it's it's a little

confusing. Okay. So, now I can also try

asking my agent to do things for me. So,

I can be like, "What skills do you

have?" So, I I think this is actually

Well, we'll see what it says.

Okay. So, I think I already have some

skills installed on my machine already.

So, um you can see it actually has a lot

of skills already. Some of these are

built in. So um the go skill which I

talked about earlier and then also the

scheduling skill are built into letabot

itself versus these skills are actually

coming from leta code. So you can

actually configure it to not include

these skills at all but I would

generally recommend keeping them since

they're kind of skills that are leta

specific designed to help the agent be

really good at memory. And then there's

also some global skills that I already

like pre-installed. Um so we can also

use those as well. Um, but yeah, I mean

we can try using one of the skills. So I

can be like, uh,

make an event

workout

leg day for 9:00 a.m. tomorrow on my

Wait, why am I doing this? Oh, yeah.

Yeah,

on my cow.

And so the agent should be able to use

its Gogg/Google skill to essentially do

this because I already gave it

permissions for my calendar.

Okay, great. So it seems to have worked.

I can go into the AD and see what it was

up to. Um, so yeah, it looks like it was

using the CLI tool to essentially like

run bash commands that created this

event on my calendar.

Um, so I also like to use this for email

as well. Um, I'm not going to run that

cuz my email is a little personal. Um,

but you know, there's really good tools

for searching through your email,

drafting emails. Um, so that's something

that I often use. Another thing that's

kind of handy is if you want to add

skills. So, we actually do have a

command for adding skills, but I would

in general recommend just having your

agent add skills to itself because

there's really no need for you as a

human to do it. So, let's let me go find

a skill to tell this agent to acquire.

Actually, I realize that this agent has

an acquiring skills skill. So, I can

tell it something like I want you to

learn how to use linear. Find yourself a

skill to do this.

um

or make one and

tell me what you need me to do.

So, I've done this process before for a

couple different tools. And what I'll

usually have my agent do is spend some

time like researching the API or like

reading through the documentation. Um,

and then once my agent has a good idea

of what it wants the skill to look like

and maybe even designs a CLI for that

skill or like a CLI for itself to call

the various API commands, um, it's it

will then be able to, you know, give me

instructions as a human for what kind of

API keys I need to set up, like what

kind of O I need to set up, etc., um, to

enable it to use that skill. So, this is

something that I've done with like my

existing personal agents. Okay, it's

checking the lettuce skills repo, but as

far as I'm concerned, I don't think we

have one.

Oh, never mind. I managed to find one.

Uh, all right, cool.

So, now it's basically giving me

instructions for what I need to do as a

human to give it it this ability to have

the skill. Um, you could, if you don't

really care about security, you can just

copy in your API key in here, and that

would probably work. But I'm just going

to tell it I have a linear API key

already set in.

So, this is like a folder I have for my

actual real personal agent um, that I've

been using for a while. Um, so hopefully

it can just use this existing API key

that I have without me having to recopy

paste my API key into Telegram.

So it looks like in this case my agent

has decided to create a new linear skill

um as opposed to using an existing one.

So that's totally fine. But in general,

if you do want to install skills that

already exist, um, we have instructions,

I think.

Oh, yeah. So, if you do skills

installation from skills.sh or from

cloudub, both of these have like a huge

number of skills that you can, you know,

use from other people. Um, you can

basically run this command to enable

different skills. And so, what that will

do is like it'll connect that skill to

your agent. So your agent will have like

additional skills um out of the box

without having to make new skills. Okay.

So now it's created a linear skill. Um

yeah, I can

it's just a test issue

linear

and then link

me

Okay. So now my agent has created this

issue. I'm going to

I don't actually know how to get this

from linear

right. So now it's created a linear

issue and so I can you know essentially

search linear, manage linear tickets,

etc. Oh no, there's a duplication. Um

I can ask my letterbot to fix that some

other time. So another thing that the

letterbot agents can do is they can also

schedule tasks. So I can kind of tell it

like oh you should like you know message

me something tomorrow. Um, so

in a few hours around 11:00 p.m.,

remember to text me to go to bed.

So, one of the built-in skills that the

agent has is this cron cron skill. So,

that's basically like a pre-built CLI

that we've bundled inside of Lettobot

for the agent to use for this explicit

purpose, which is scheduling things um

for itself. So, it can schedule repeated

tasks or it can schedule tasks for the

future. Um, and so it's like possible to

see. Yeah, I think it might even be able

to list them out. Um, what future tasks

do you have scheduled? I guess this

isn't very interesting because we've

only scheduled one, but um, in general,

like all this data is stored locally.

The agent should be able to like figure

out um, anything that it's scheduled.

Okay, cool. So, it has one bedtime

reminder scheduled. Um,

yeah. So, another thing that we haven't

really talked about yet is heartbeats.

Um, so heartbeats are a little hard to

demo because obviously I I don't want to

sit here for many hours and and see how

my how what my agent gets triggered with

every 30 minutes. Um, but we actually

added a heartbeat command so you can

kind of ex just really easily see like

um what happens to the agent when you

run a heartbeat. So, this is like a

special like built-in command that um

inside of Labbot. And so when I run

/hartbeat, this is actually triggering

explicitly triggering a heartbeat as

opposed to waiting for the system to

automatically send one. So we actually

aren't going to get a response at all

here. So you can see like there's no

like response from letterbot. Um and so

we can go into the AD and actually see

like what was this message um or what

was included inside of the heartbeat

message. Um so here it says like no one

messaged you. System woke you up on

schedule and then it responded no reply.

Um that's disappointing. It doesn't

usually do this. Uh I mean because we

are using Leta we can actually just

switch this to a more interesting model

for the sake of this demo. Um

so let's switch it to opus and see if it

does something more interesting.

Okay. So opus is a more interesting

model. So when opus gets the heartbeat

despite having the in context example

that's very boring. Um it still decides

to do something interesting. So, it

says, "Good moment to reflect on my

first real experience with Sarah and

update my memory." Oh, interesting. A

memory update. Um,

what did it decide to do? So,

so it inserted a bunch of things into

memory.

Oh, interesting. It wrote stuff about

routines.

Okay, so it's basically using this this

time block um to reflect on its memory,

which is interesting. Um, it can

basically do whatever it chooses to. So

I guess in this case it chose to reflect

on memory.

So maybe I can I mean I can just ask it

like what were recent changes you made

to your memory.

Okay, so these are all the things it

decided to remember about me, which is I

I guess pretty accurate. Um, so yeah,

again, the downtime can be whatever. You

can even like kind of specify by

changing the prompt like what kind of

stuff you want it to do during its

downtime. Um, I think in this case it

just happened to do memory, but you

know, it can also like do art or like

explore things as well. Um, so that

actually kind of leads me into memory or

is a good segue into memory. Um so let

me actually ask it like where is your

memory located

locally? Um so to kind of give a little

bit of background um a lot of code

agents essentially now use something

called context repositories. So they

basically have a local copy of their

memory file system on local machine. Um

but they will push it over time. So once

they push their changes to their memory

repository or context repository, it'll

actually show up here. So that's why

this data is like a little out of date

because this is the server's copy of

what the current memory is. So I can

actually just go in here.

So this is the memory directory of my

agent. So I can actually see what's

inside of it. Um

I can even do get log to kind of see

like what has it done

actually. So yeah, if we want to see,

so this is essentially what Opus decided

to update um during its reflection

period. It learned a lot of my emails. I

don't know why. So yeah, it's it's just

doing like a lot of refle reflection

trying to fill in kind of like the gaps

um from from the very limited amount of

experience that it has so far. But yeah,

this is all like a normal git repo. So

you can actually like see all those

changes. And another thing that you can

do is you can actually even talk to this

same agent. um from Leta Code. So um

this is the agent ID. You can also just

ask your agent what its agent ID is. And

I'm just going to stop the server for a

second. And so I can actually do let-

agent and then this agent ID. And this

will connect me to let because again

like I said earlier, this is all just

let code under the hood. All the server

is doing is just wrapping Leta code and

calling into let code. So um yeah I can

do slashmemory and then this is like

another way to visualize the memory of

the agent. Um so yeah this agent has a

lot of memory so this is not the best

view. Um but yeah I can also like search

the conversation. So I can do like

search um and what's a good thing to

search like search linear.

So let's just search this agent.

And so you can kind of see, oh, sorry

about the rendering, but you can kind of

see like the uh operations that the

agent was doing like previously when it

was like trying to learn about um the

linear CLI and and stuff like that. So

basically like if you want to have your

agent like start coding um you can you

can actually just do that. And if you

want to just talk to it directly from

the let code CLI interface um that's

always an option because again it's just

the same agent under the hood.

So, I think I should even be able to do

Yeah, basically um whenever you're

talking to the agent through um

letterbot, it's actually through a

conversation. So, it's not on the main

thread. So, this was literally the

conversation that um we were just

having.

Oh, so I was confused for a second why

it was talking about this newsletter

ray, but I realized that

it must be listen Oh, yeah. Yeah, it's

listening to my email. So, it like got

like a notification of like some random

Okay, I think I have a lot of spam in my

email, so I think it like got some spam

um from a newsletter.

Okay, so I did verify that. Yeah, sorry,

I was so confused. Um but yeah, I did

get some spam email from beehive.com.

Google spam is like horrible at

filtering, which is why we all have to

use agents now. Um, but yeah, my agent

received this um and decided to not do

anything about it. Thank god. Uh, so

that's why the last message in the

conversation is about this spam email.

Um, but yeah, you can see before that

like the messages that I was asking like

where is your memory located and it

answering those questions. Um, so that's

basically exactly what was going on

inside of Telegram. Now we're just

looking at it through the letter code

interface. So that was our quick

overview of Letterbot and how you can

basically turn um these existing Leta

code agents into a much more powerful

personal assistant through having things

like heartbeats, cron jobs um and

basically the orchestration that the

server provides. There's of course a lot

more that you can do here. You can add a

ton of different skills. There's a huge

ecosystem that's developing right now to

do crazy stuff with your agents.

Basically anything your agent or that

you can do on your computer, your agent

can probably do at this point. Um, and

Letterbot is a really great way to turn

these a these types of very powerful

computer use agents into these actual

proactive personal assistants that maybe

are even able to develop their own

personalities or proactively take on

work on your behalf. Personal agents is

a really exciting space because these

agents that are actually proactive and

can learn and develop over time are

really powerful and even in my own

experience feel surprisingly similar to

actual real human collaborators. Let us

know if you have any questions in the

comments or on our Discord and see you

next time.
